---
layout: council
full-name: Amy Tong
reference: amy-tong
title: Chief Information Officer and Director
organization: State of California Department of Technology
---

<p>Governor Jerry Brown appointed Amy Tong as Director of the California Department of Technology (CDT) on June 30, 2016, after she had served as Acting Director since April 1, 2016.</p>
<p>As the Director and State Chief Information Officer (CIO), Ms. Tong is responsible for advising the Governor on the strategic management and direction of the state’s Information Technology (IT) resources. She is also responsible for establishing and implementing state IT strategic plans, policies, standards and enterprise architecture while minimizing overlap, redundancy and cost to the state by promoting the efficient and effective use of IT. Ms. Tong coordinates the activities of Agency Information Officers (AIO) and department CIOs for the purpose of integrating statewide technology initiatives and ensuring compliance with IT policies and standards in the areas of Digital Services, Information Security, Project Delivery, Innovation and IT Workforce development. She promotes alignment and effective management of IT resources by working to improve organizational maturity and capacity in the effective management of IT. In order to achieve success in these areas, Ms. Tong has emphasized the importance of strategic clarity within the department. She has aimed to instill a sense of common purpose throughout the organization through structural realignment and improved internal communication with the end goal being a department that is pointed in the same direction and continuously working toward one common goal.</p>
<p>Ms. Tong has over 22 years of business, technology, and management experience in the public sector. Prior to being appointed director of CDT, she served as the Chief Deputy Director and Agency Chief Information Officer in the Office of Systems Integration at the California Health and Human Services Agency, Deputy Director and Chief Information Officer at California Lottery, Chief Technology Officer at Board of Equalization; Chief of the Data Center at California Public Employees’ Retirement System; and was the acting CIO at the Water Resources Control Board. Ms. Tong has a Bachelor of Science degree in Management Information System (MIS) and a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from California State University, Sacramento.</p>
<p>Ms. Tong has also spent the past 17 years serving her community as a volunteer. She is a national senior adviser and immediate past national vice-chair of the Asian Pacific Islander Public Affairs Association, a non-profit organization, dedicated to empowering community members in civic engagement, youth leadership development, and community collaboration. Ms. Tong is continuing her community involvement by serving as the Planning Commissioner for the City of Elk Grove.</p>
